[DO NOT MERGE] Documentation (#111)
canonical/kyuubi-k8s-operator: docs/tutorial/index.md

# Tutorial

This hands-on tutorial aims to help you learn how to deploy Charmed Apache Kyuubi K8s and become familiar with its available operations.

## Prerequisites

> TODO

Reviewer: Todo: Please add some minimal requirements here.

Author: No longer relevant since it will be part of the global tutorial

## Set up the environment

> TODO

Reviewer: That's an important step.
Todo: Add set up instructions.
I assume the best way to go is to revert back to the state after the first stage of the tutorial (environment setup). Is there an easy way to do that? I can add a Multipass snapshot step there, so we can do that with three commands (Stop VM - Restore snapshot - Start VM).

Author: Reworked in bdb99ef2b224ea905b852941fa857653b7fff432. I did not do the restore snapshot instruction though

## Deploy Charmed Apache Kyuubi K8s

Run the following commands to create a new model, deploy the mandatory charms and relate them:

```shell
juju add-model tutorial

juju deploy s3-integrator --channel 1/stable
juju config s3-integrator bucket=mybucket
juju run s3-integrator/0 sync-s3-credentials access-key=ACCESS_KEY secret-key=SECRET_KEY

juju deploy spark-integration-hub-k8s --channel 3/edge --trust
juju integrate spark-integration-hub-k8s s3-integrator

juju deploy postgresql-k8s --channel 14/stable --trust

juju deploy data-integrator --channel latest/edge --config database-name=test

juju deploy kyuubi-k8s --channel 3.4/edge --trust
juju integrate kyuubi-k8s spark-integration-hub-k8s 
juju integrate kyuubi-k8s:auth-db postgresql-k8s
juju integrate kyuubi-k8s data-integrator
```

> > **Note**: You may use a different object storage, such as `azure-storage-integrator`.

Reviewer: Question: Is that important for this tutorial? Tutorials should avoid branching logic and follow a single path to success.

Author: Removed in bdb99ef2b224ea905b852941fa857653b7fff432

## Access Charmed Apache Kyuubi K8s

Get the JDBC endpoint and its credentials with the following command:

```shell
juju run data-integrator/0 get-credentials
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The resulted output should look like the following:

```

```yaml
kyuubi:
  data: '{"database": "test", "external-node-connectivity": "true", "provided-secrets":
    "[\"mtls-cert\"]", "requested-secrets": "[\"username\", \"password\", \"tls\",
    \"tls-ca\", \"uris\", \"read-only-uris\"]"}'
  database: test
  endpoints: 10.64.140.43:10009
  password: 31rwWzk8wpnhoZvU
  tls: "False"
  uris: jdbc:hive2://10.64.140.43:10009/
  username: relation_id_15
  version: 1.10.2
ok: "True"
```

> You may use the endpoint with a JDBC-compliant client, such as `beeline`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `spark-client.beeline` command to access the endpoint with a JDBC-compliant client `beeline`:
```

> ```{note}
> We recommend using the [spark-client](https://snapcraft.io/spark-client) snap, which exposes a beeline client under the `spark-client.beeline` command.
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

We don't need that note in a tutorial.

```shell
spark-client.beeline -u "jdbc:hive2://10.64.140.43:10009/" -n relation_id_15 -p 31rwWzk8wpnhoZvU
```

## Enable encryption with TLS

[Transport Layer Security (TLS)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transport_Layer_Security) is a protocol used to encrypt data exchanged between two applications.
Essentially, it secures data transmitted over a network.

Typically, enabling TLS between a highly available database and client/server applications requires a high level of expertise.

> This has all been encoded into Charmed Apache Kyuubi K8s so that configuring TLS requires minimal effort on your end.

Reviewer: Question: Can we delete this? Feels redundant.

Author: Removed this line in bdb99ef2b224ea905b852941fa857653b7fff432

TLS is enabled by integrating Charmed Apache Kyuubi K8s with the [Self-signed certificates charm](https://charmhub.io/self-signed-certificates).
This charm centralises TLS certificate management consistently and handles operations like providing, requesting, and renewing TLS certificates.

> ```{caution}

Reviewer: Chore: As mentioned earlier - this syntax is not supported by Discourse

Author: Addressed in bdb99ef2b224ea905b852941fa857653b7fff432

> **[Self-signed certificates](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Self-signed_certificate) are not recommended for a production environment.**
> 
> Check [this guide](https://discourse.charmhub.io/t/security-with-x-509-certificates/11664) for an overview of the TLS certificates charms available.

Reviewer: Suggestion: Wording improvements.

```suggestion
We recommend to avoid using self-signed TLS certificates for production environments.
Please refer to the [X.509 certificates post](https://charmhub.io/topics/security-with-x-509-certificates) for an overview of the TLS certificates Providers charms and some guidance on how to choose the right charm for your use case.
```

```

> Before enabling TLS on Charmed Apache Kyuubi K8s, we must deploy the `self-signed-certificates` charm:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before enabling TLS on Charmed Apache Kyuubi K8s, deploy the `self-signed-certificates` charm to use as a certificate provider:
```

```shell
juju deploy self-signed-certificates --config ca-common-name="Tutorial CA"
```

Wait for the charm settle into an `active/idle` state, as shown by the `juju status`.

> To enable TLS on Charmed Apache Kyuubi K8s, relate the `kyuubi-k8s` charm with the `self-signed-certificates` charm:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable TLS on Charmed Apache Kyuubi K8s, integrate the `kyuubi-k8s` charm with the `self-signed-certificates` charm:
```

```shell
juju relate kyuubi-k8s self-signed-certificates
```

After the charms settle into `active/idle` states, the Charmed Apache Kyuubi K8s endpoint should now accept encrypted traffic.
This can be tested by requesting the server certificate using `openssl`:

```shell

> openssl s_client -showcerts -connect 10.64.140.43:10009 < /dev/null

Reviewer: Question: Can we add a guidance here where to get the address for this command?

Author: Switched the commands in bdb99ef2b224ea905b852941fa857653b7fff432 so that the relation between the steps is more apparent + inserted a one liner to get the endpoint

```

Requesting the credentials again should now display the certificate to use:

```shell
juju run data-integrator/0 get-credentials
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The resulted output should look like the following:

```

    V6hvAgMBAAGjZzBlMB8GA1UdDgQYBBYEFC5E5p+5CDMi8lwiDZKG4RHRNxVYMCEG
    A1UdIwQaMBiAFgQULkTmn7kIMyLyXCINkobhEdE3FVgwDgYDVR0PAQH/BAQDAgKk
    MA8GA1UdEwEB/wQFMAMBAf8wDQYJKoZIhvcNAQELBQADggEBAEZCONjNJw22Fox/
    7YCRMgb8TTLjybl5aFnpISVe+DbDiceBHrwcP+gJxHTh6cWs8tBrqi2v9ghcYo7S
    Ux7MnRzc4qQTSravR+07guGDeQjaSNk6FX2I5J8shrUD4167ZbPDMoYmcawr4wAZ
    NpIeRGN8IkezA5nMCY0iSrBsrpMYUepDmIPWck8MvrgPGjrR+hZSBq3EJc5J91Os
    QLWGr1RlSjFOfsP8s8n0dkC2UqXmOBN7NZogizGS2mbQvLAg0dSOvueaJsh8dPBU
    eN0aIQcZSPwCK/6iPokfO/afCYZIEmr5LBs81i5B8bQXqnxpltmcNbOQICfqA9XK
    m/BZ6OU=
    -----END CERTIFICATE-----
  uris: jdbc:hive2://10.64.140.43:10009/
  username: relation_id_15
  version: 1.10.2
ok: "True"
```

To connect to Charmed Apache Kyuubi K8s using the spark-client's bundled beeline client, import the certificate in the spark-client snap:

```shell
juju run data-integrator/0 get-credentials | yq ".kyuubi.tls-ca" > cert.pem
spark-client.import-certificate tutorial-cert cert.pem
```

Then, add `;ssl=true` to the JDBC endpoint you got from the data-integrator charm.

```shell
spark-client.beeline -u "jdbc:hive2://10.64.140.43:10009/;ssl=true" -n relation_id_15 -p 31rwWzk8wpnhoZvU
```

> Congratulations! You are now connected to Charmed Apache Kyuubi K8s using TLS.

Reviewer: Suggestion: I'd add a sanity-check condition before the congratulation - describe how the success looks like. IIRC, beeline shows a welcome prompt if connected successfully.

```suggestion
Congratulations! You are now connected to Charmed Apache Kyuubi K8s using TLS.
```

Author: Added a success line in bdb99ef2b224ea905b852941fa857653b7fff432

To remove the external TLS, remove the integration:

```shell
juju remove-relation kyuubi-k8s self-signed-certificates

> ```

Reviewer: Suggestion: I don't think we need this in the tutorial

Author: Removed in bdb99ef2b224ea905b852941fa857653b7fff432
